New pages: stop-opacity and stop-color properties (#35170)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/stop-opacity/index.md

---
title: stop-opacity
slug: Web/CSS/stop-opacity
page-type: css-property
browser-compat: css.properties.stop-opacity
---

{{CSSRef}}

> The **`stop-opacity`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property the opacity of a given color gradient stop in the SVG {{SVGElement("stop")}} element. If present, it overrides the element's {{SVGAttr("stop-opacity")}} attribute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`stop-opacity`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property defines the opacity of a given SVG {{SVGElement("stop")}} element within a gradient. If present, it overrides the element's {{SVGAttr("stop-opacity")}} attribute.
```

Reviewer: done

> The property value impacts the `stop-color`'s alpha channel; it can increase the transparency of a `<stop>`'s color but can not make the color defined by the `color-stop` property more opaque.

Reviewer 2: Can we link them?

```suggestion
The property value impacts the {{cssxref("stop-color")}}'s alpha channel; it can increase the transparency of a `<stop>`'s color but can not make the color defined by the `color-stop` property more opaque.
```

Reviewer 2: Also we have `color-stop` and `stop-color`, it would be good to disambiguate when they're so close together in prose.

Reviewer: This is fixed. They were both supposed to be `stop-color`, which has been updated.

> [!NOTE]

> > The `stop-opacity` property only applies to {{SVGElement('stop')}} element nested in an {{SVGElement("svg")}}. It doesn't apply other SVG, HTML, or pseudo-elements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> The `stop-opacity` property only applies to {{SVGElement('stop')}} elements nested in an {{SVGElement("svg")}}. It doesn't apply to other SVG, HTML, or pseudo-elements.
```

Reviewer: @estelle the "to" near the end of the sentence still needs to be added.

> > The `stop-opacity` property only applies to {{SVGElement('stop')}} elements nested in an {{SVGElement("svg")}}. It doesn't apply other SVG, HTML, or pseudo-elements.

Author: ```suggestion
> The `stop-opacity` property only applies to {{SVGElement('stop')}} elements nested in an {{SVGElement("svg")}}. It doesn't apply to other SVG, HTML, or pseudo-elements.
```

## Syntax

```css
/* numeric and percentage values */
stop-opacity: 0.2;
stop-opacity: 20%;

/* Global values */
stop-opacity: inherit;
stop-opacity: initial;
stop-opacity: revert;
stop-opacity: revert-layer;
stop-opacity: unset;
```

### Values

> The `<opacity-value>` is a {{cssxref("number")}} and {{cssxref("percentage")}} denoting the opacity of the SVG gradient `<stop>` element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `<opacity-value>` is a {{cssxref("number")}} or {{cssxref("percentage")}} denoting the opacity of the SVG gradient `<stop>` element.
```

Reviewer: done

- {{cssxref("number")}}

  - : A numeric value between `0` and `1`, inclusive.

- {{cssxref("percentage")}}

  - : A percentage value between `0%` and `100%`, inclusive.

> With `0` or `0%`, the stop is fully transparent (that is, invisible). With `1` or `100%`, the element is the full opacity of the `stop-color` value; which may or may not be partially opaque.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With `0` or `0%` set, the stop is fully transparent. With `1` or `100%` set, the element is the full opacity of the `stop-color` value, which may or may not be partially opaque.
```

Reviewer: done

## Formal definition

> {{CSSInfo}}

Reviewer 2: Same issue with the broken macro here

Author: PR has been filed on MDN/data - https://github.com/mdn/data/pull/753

## Formal syntax

{{csssyntax}}

## Examples

### Defining the opacity of a SVG gradient color stop

This example demonstrates the basic use case of `stop-opacity`, and how the CSS `stop-opacity` property takes precedence over the `stop-opacity` attribute.

#### HTML

> We have an SVG with a few {{SVGElement("polygon")}} stars and three almost identical {{SVGElement("linearGradient")}} elements: each has three {{SVGElement("stop")}} elements defining three color-stops that create a gradient going from blue to white to pink; the only difference between them is the `id` value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We have an SVG with a few {{SVGElement("polygon")}} stars and three {{SVGElement("linearGradient")}} elements: each has three {{SVGElement("stop")}} elements defining three color-stops that create a gradient going from blue to white to pink; the only difference between them is the `id` value.
```

Reviewer: This is done.

```html
<svg viewBox="0 0 250 120" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg">
  <defs>
    <linearGradient id="myGradient1">
      <stop offset="5%" stop-color="#66ccff" stop-opacity="1" />
      <stop offset="50%" stop-color="#fefefe" stop-opacity="1" />
      <stop offset="95%" stop-color="#f4aab9" stop-opacity="1" />
    </linearGradient>
    <linearGradient id="myGradient2">
      <stop offset="5%" stop-color="#66ccff" stop-opacity="1" />
      <stop offset="50%" stop-color="#fefefe" stop-opacity="1" />
      <stop offset="95%" stop-color="#f4aab9" stop-opacity="1" />
    </linearGradient>
    <linearGradient id="myGradient3">
      <stop offset="5%" stop-color="#66ccff" stop-opacity="1" />
      <stop offset="50%" stop-color="#fefefe" stop-opacity="1" />
      <stop offset="95%" stop-color="#f4aab9" stop-opacity="1" />
    </linearGradient>
  </defs>
  <polygon points="40,10 10,100 80,40 0,40 70,100" />
  <polygon points="125,10 95,100 165,40 85,40 155,100" />
  <polygon points="210,10 180,100 250,40 170,40 240,100" />
</svg>
```

#### CSS

We include a {{cssxref("stroke")}} and {{cssxref("stroke-width")}} making the polygon path line visible.

> Each `polygon` has a gradient background set using the {{cssxref("fill")}} property; the gradient's`id` is the `url()` parameter. We set `magenta` as the fallback color.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each `polygon` has a gradient background set using the {{cssxref("fill")}} property; the gradient's `id` is the `url()` parameter. We set `magenta` as the fallback color.
```

Reviewer: This is done.

We define the opacity of the stops of each gradient using the `stop-opacity` property.

> The SVG has a striped background to make translucency more apparent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SVG has a striped background to make the transparency settings more apparent.
```

Reviewer: translucency is not wrong, but I feel like transparency is more obvious/understandable.

Author: your suggestion is WAY better.
